The following presentation
is from Faces magazine.
In this piece, Christine Graf
writes about The Carter Center.
When Jimmy Carter left the oval office in 1981
after serving as our country's 39th president,
his career as a public
servant was far from over.
In fact, some would say that his
best years were yet to come.
Within one year of
returning home to Georgia,
Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, founded
The Carter Center in Atlanta.
It is a privately funded, nonprofit organization
that works in partnership with Emory University
to promote democracy and improve health
and human rights around the world.
They have helped people
in more than 70 countries
people whom the Center describes as
being "the poor and often forgotten."
Through its democracy program,
The Carter Center has observed
elections around the world
and helped develop international
standards for democratic elections.
Its representatives go to countries where elections are
being held under troubled or dangerous conditions.
The Carter Center does not represent
the United States government.
Many of these countries are emerging from civil war or
armed conflicts and are transitioning to democracies.
Election monitoring teams go only to countries
where high-level officials have invited them
and where all political
parties will welcome them.